F Construction
This section includes general construction and specialised construction activities for buildings and civil engineering works.
It includes new work, repair, additions and alterations, the erection of prefabricated buildings or structures on the site as well as construction of a temporary nature.
General construction is the construction of entire buildings for e.g., homes, offices, stores , as well as utility buildings or farm buildings etc.It also includes the construction of civil engineering works such as motorways, streets, bridges, tunnels, railways, airfields, harbours and other water projects, irrigation systems, sewerage systems, industrial facilities, pipelines and electric lines, sports facilities etc.
This work can be carried out on own account or on a fee or contract basis, including intermediation service activities for construction.
Portions of the work and sometimes even the whole practical work can be subcontracted out.
A main contractor that carries the overall responsibility for a construction project is classified here.
Also included is the repair of buildings and engineering works.
Maintenance, repair and installation of equipment that forms an integral part of buildings , e.g. escalators or air-conditioning systems, is classified as construction in section F, if carried out at the construction site.
This section includes the complete construction of buildings (division 41), the complete construction of civil engineering works (division 42), as well as specialised construction activities, if carried out only as a part of the construction process (division 43).
The rental of construction equipment with operator is classified with the specific construction activity carried out with this equipment.
This section also includes:
- renovation and restoration of historical sites and buildings which are part of the cultural heritage
This section excludes:
- curative conservation of historical sites and buildings, see 9130
- archaeological excavations, see 722
- erection of complete prefabricated constructions from self-manufactured parts not of concrete, see divisions 16 and 25
- fabricating operations not performed at the site of construction, see Section C